Brainstorming:
Ashley by Dababy: Very nice beat, gets right into the topic, starts rapping from the start
History by Rich Brian: Very catchy lyrics and beat
Berzerk by Big Sean and A$AP Ferg: The beat has a nice rhythm to it, the lyrics go well with the beat
One More Time by Daft Punk: Incredibly catchy, and sounds really futuristic in a way: it has a really nice beat which echoes disco, but sounds really modern.
Stan by Eminem: Dido’s singing hooks one into the song, but then tells a story through the medium of rap, which is really engaging.
Movin’ On Up by Primal Scream: Nice sound that echoes 1960s rock, like how the song builds up to a really good climax

Type for our song: rap/hip hop, as it is really easy to convey information through this medium, and it is a genre that we think many people in CSCI 1101 would enjoy listening to.

Musical idea:
The melody consists of essentially an arpeggiated D4 minor 7 chord, as hip hop melodies tend to be fairly simple like that. In addition, a chord progression was used, which was a 4-chord progression in the key of D. We then used two different synthesisers (ambient and hoover), which created a nice texture to the song: the chords are very noticeable, but then the melody is a “lower layer” which is easy to spot once you listen to the song: it’s nice to have some complexity in the beat.

We made a combination of hip hop with a trap beat. After doing some research, a lot of trap beats consists of kicks, snares, and a 808 bass. We made a kick be a rhythmic component, while we added another kick that added an irregular and saucy feel to it. The 808 bass corresponds with the kick and is a crucial component to keeping the beat. Lastly, the snares added the magical touch to make the song seem trappy, yet subtle enough to not take away much from the hip hop melody.

Finally, we also decided on using Apple’s default Australian male voice, as we decided it had the best “flow” when it came to “rapping” the important CSCI 1101 content. 
